Document lib-export #318 (#319)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/api/lib-export.adoc

= Export Library

:toc: right
:imagesdir: ../images

image:xp-780.svg[XP 7.8.0,opts=inline]

> This library provides functions for generation node exports and importing them.

Author: ```suggestion
This library provides functions for creating and importing node-exports.
```

== Usage

> Add the following into your `build.gradle` file:

Author: ```suggestion
Add the following to your `build.gradle` file:
```

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
  include "com.enonic.xp:lib-export:${xpVersion}"
}
----

In your JavaScript controller, add a require statement:

[source,js]
----
const exportLib = require('/lib/xp/export');
----

You are now ready to use the library functionality.

== Functions

=== exportNodes

Export nodes to a nodes-export.
Export is created in <<../deployment/config#_export, exports>> directory.

[.lead]
Parameters

An object with the following keys and their values:

[%header,cols="1%,1%,1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name | Type | Attributes | Default | Description

| sourceNodePath | string | | | Source nodes path

> | exportName | string | | | Export name

Reviewer: Missing `targetDirectory`

Author: there is no target directory in js API.. Deliberately.

| includeNodeIds | boolean | <optional>| true | Set to true to export node IDs
| includeVersions | boolean | <optional>| false | Set to true to export all node versions
| nodeResolved | function | <optional>| | A function to be called before export starts with number of nodes to export
| nodeExported | function | <optional>| | A function to be called during export with number of nodes exported since last call
|===

[.lead]
Returns

*object* : Node export results

[.lead]
Examples

```js
// Export content nodes.
let exportNodes = exportLib.exportNodes({
    sourceNodePath: '/content',
    exportName: 'export-1',
    includeNodeIds: true,
    includeVersions: true,

>     nodeImported: (i) => {

Author: ```suggestion
    nodeExported: (i) => {
```

    ],
    'exportErrors': [
        'some error'
    ]
};
```
=== importNodes

Import nodes from a nodes-export.
Could be used to import node-export from <<../deployment/config#_export, exports>> directory or from application resource files.
Optionally pre-transforms node XML node files with XSLT before import.

[.lead]
Parameters

An object with the following keys and their values:

[%header,cols="1%,1%,1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name | Type | Attributes | Default | Description

| source | string or object | | | Either name of nodes-export located in exports directory or application resource key
| targetNodePath | string | | | Target path for imported nodes
| xslt | string or object  | <optional>| true | XSLT file name in exports directory or application resource key. Used for XSLT transformation
| xsltParams | object  | <optional>| | Parameters used in XSLT transformation
| includeNodeIds | boolean | <optional>| false | Set to true to use node IDs from the import, false to generate new node IDs
| includePermissions | boolean | <optional>| false | Set to true to use Node permissions from the import, false to use target node permissions

> | nodeResolved | function | <optional>| | A function to be called during export with number of nodes exported since last call

Author: ```suggestion
| nodeResolved | function | <optional>| | A function to be called during import with number of nodes imported since last call
```

> | nodeExported | function | <optional>| | A function to be called during export with number of nodes exported since last call

Author: ```suggestion
| nodeImported | function | <optional>| | A function to be called during import with number of nodes imported since last call
```
